<p class="text_container">

On bridging the "objective" way of looking at the world and the multiple "religious" ones.

Origin of my reflexion on the topic:

I have spent a lot of time wondering about how to explain the persistence of "belief" in the modern society, and some time during my studies it appeared to me that the ability to deal with "unprecise" mental
objects is necessary to act on the social and human aspects of life, and for this purpose to conceptualise the part of experience that is related to these aspects. I believe that the "preciseness" of certain parts of
our cognition can be attractive compared to the raw experience of the others and the conflict between multiple ways to see the actual world, but the focus on this part prevents from actual freedom (and thus ontal
stability in a sense). A way to see this moment is that I crossed two "worlds" thought as 'phases' of points of view that are 'gravitationally' attracted similar ones and repulsed to different ones, in such a way that the limit
between these worlds is a sort of void in which it is impossible to stay in, and the result of this separation is that none of these worlds is perceivable  in the other one (or only as a mere echo of it): the world
of subjects who choose to set their focus on the 'objective' part of the World for its stability and despite its finiteness and the ones who set their focus on its 'obscure' part for its impact (in term of meaning) despite its obscurity.
Crossing this limit has been of great importance in my life and after this point I have almost unconsciously came back to reproduce it, by crossing as many 'sub-worlds' in the World as I could, in order to be able to conceptualise
it.

Formulation: The problem I want to attack is the one of characterising the limit itself between these two worlds, in such a way that it becomes perceptible in both worlds, as it would signify in its existence the existence of
'something' outside of what we think as the world as it should be, meaning the one we live in, transcendentally, and that there is some communication possible. I believe in the past few years I have collected and created enough tools to
attack this question, hypotheses and intuitions, in order to build a robust conceptualisation that could be shared.

Impact:

A way to attack the problem:

I believe one fruitful way to attack this problem would be to understand precisely what is the nature of 'objectivity' in its contemporary intuition (I took this path in the last paper I wrote 'A formal window on phenomenal objectness'),
and the nature of what we intuitively set outside of the 'objective' part of the World, although close enough to this part of the World so that we can agree intersubjectively, and even collectively, on their existence (in
this last article, I pointed out one class of these as 'pre-static' designations), and thus allowing to talk about their nature as existants. Working this way will help to isolate one possible way to think about existing things
that are not 'objective' (at least in the current meaning of objectivity). Some examples are the 'economy' or the 'religion', or any kind of large concepts such as these ones. The framework that I defined in this paper
helps thinking non-objectively about this existants (which is necessary for there is a stable intuition that they can not be captured in terms of objects articulations) and still in terms that we can exchange and agree upon,
as well as on their adequation to that towards which they are directed. Let me be a bit more precise. In fact one can see an object as something that belongs to a singular experience , but can be extracted identically from
this experience, in the sense that it is similar, to the point of identification, with some part of another singular experience. I believe that on the other hand one should think about these existants as belonging the structure
of the set of experiences that we can have, as stored in the memory: one can think of religion for instance as a particular set of experiences, the 'religious' experiences; this set is formed by a transcendental operation
that I called grouping, the distinction of this particular set of possible experiences as 'existing'. Religion is thus defined not necessarily objectively (in the sense that religious experiences would be defined by an object that belongs to it) but transcendentally (and in relation with other experiences, as the subject as a minima a set of possible experiences). In this setting, objects are very particular existants but they are not the only ones. On the other hand it is still possible to conceive intersubjectively part of the experience that lie outside of the objective realm. Let me stress that this statement does not exclude the influence of subjectivity and intersubjectivity on the perception of these existants, as one has to distinguish their hypothetical form as a set of certain experiences obtained by the grouping transcendental operation and the reason 'why' this operation was done (which is so far thought as entirely subjective).

Left to pursue: expand this idea of the nature of the religious phase in terms of groups of experiences.

Notes: On the non-existence of singularity: based on the hypothesis that the whole extension of the world can be captured objectively, in a sense by machines whose perception is universal (all what exists
is object and thus can be perceived by a machine) but whose processing of the information extracted and derived from perception is optimal (and thus more efficient that the one of humans). However I would like to show
that the hypothesis of the world's objectivity is wrong.


List of concepts and themes for which one can try to find a translation in non-metaphorical terms (with the guideline that the difference between the secular world and the sacred one is a difference of language, and if religion principles are knowledge, it should be possible 
to interpret them in another language): sin, incarnation/trinity, thinking about God's existence and nature, jesus and love, the interpretation of certain myths (the return of Jesus at the end of times), religion in general, of the use of thinking about God as a person, the interpretation of the term believing, sur l'interprétation des métaphores, traduction des preceptes religieux en termes d'algorithmes transcendentaux (notamment la concentration de l'esprit sur une idée et ses effets), la distinction entre religion et fanatisme, l'observation que l'anti-religieux peut se muer en religion. 

</p>
                                  
                                   
